28 BTEC First Business 2nd edition 1.4  The main functional areas within  business organisations Even in the smallest business a number of key tasks, or functions, must  Fact ﬁle be done regularly. Stock must be bought, bills must be paid, customers  must be served and customer enquiries must be answered. In a small  ﬁrm all these jobs may be done by one or two people. In a large  All businesses have key  organisation, people specialise in different tasks. Tesco and Sainsbury’s,  functions to carry out, such  for example, have buyers to purchase the stock, accounts staff to pay the  as dealing with customers  bills, checkout staff to serve customers and customer service staff to  and paying bills. answer queries.  Functional areas in business Activity In a large organisation, it is usually easier to identify separate functional  areas because people work together in departments. Each department  Suggest the key functions  carries out the tasks that relate to its particular area. The main ones you  that are carried out in your  are likely to meet in business are shown below. school or college and see  if your tutor agrees. Research and Production Administration Customer service development (R & D) Sales Functional areas in business organisations Distribution Marketing ICT Human resources Finance (cid:29) Main functional areas in business The purposes of functional areas Key term The main purpose of functional areas is to ensure that all important  business activities are carried out efﬁciently. This is essential if the  business is to achieve its aims and objectives. In addition, speciﬁc areas  Functional area is a person,  will be responsibility for supporting speciﬁc types of aims and objectives,  area or department which  for example: carries out a particular  (cid:30) sales and marketing will be involved in achieving targets linked to  business function, for  developing new markets or increasing sales example, ﬁnance, sales or  customer service. (cid:30) human resources will be involved in arranging staff training activities  and supporting the continuous professional development of all staffUnit 1 Exploring business purposes 29 (cid:30) ﬁnance will be expected to monitor and support aims and objectives  linked to keeping costs low to improve proﬁtability Fact ﬁle (cid:30) production will be set targets relating to quality or meeting planned  production schedules. Functional areas vary  between organisations,  The administration function depending upon the type  Administration is a support function required by all businesses – and this  of work carried out. For  does not mean just doing keyboarding or ﬁling. Senior administrators  example, retailers do not  carry out a wide range of tasks, from monitoring budgets to interviewing  need a production  new staff for their departments. function. Routine administrative tasks include opening the mail, preparing and  ﬁling documents, sending emails and faxes. Others require more  creativity and ﬂexibility, such as arranging travel or important events,  Did you  from staff meetings to visits by foreign customers. Most administrators  know? also deal with external customers who judge the business on the way  their enquiry is handled. Poor or sloppy administration can be disastrous  CPD (Continuous  for a company’s image and reputation. A lost order, badly typed letter,  professional development)  important message that is not passed on or wrong date scheduled for a  means taking responsibility  meeting can cause problems and may lose customers. Efﬁcient  for your own future  administration means that everything runs smoothly and managers can  development at work by  concentrate on the task of running the business.  identifying opportunities  In a small organisation, an administrator is often a ‘jack-of-all-trades’  that will enable you to  who can turn a hand to anything – from checking and paying invoices  improve and progress your  to keeping the ﬁrm’s website up to date. In a larger ﬁrm administration  knowledge and skills. may be carried out in every department, rather than just one. A sales  administrator may make overseas travel arrangements whereas an  administrator in human resources would arrange job interviews.  A summary of the range of tasks administrators carry out is given below.  You will learn more about administration if you study option unit 6. Did you  know? Administrative salaries can  range from £10,000 per  annum to over £30,000  per annum. Many  recruitment agencies  publish salary surveys and  reports, such as www. secsinthecity.co.uk and  <insert photo 010> www.kellyservices.co.uk30 BTEC First Business 2nd edition Activity Administration functions (cid:30) Collecting, distributing and dispatching the mail Talk to one of the  (cid:30) Storing and retrieving paper and electronic records  administrators in your  (cid:30) Organising meetings and preparing meetings documents school or college about  (cid:30) Responding promptly to enquiries  the work carried out in  (cid:30)  Preparing documents using word processing, spreadsheet and  their ofﬁce – but  presentation packages, such as PowerPoint remember it is not polite  (cid:30) Researching information  to ask anyone how much  (cid:30) Sending and receiving messages by telephone, fax and email they earn! (cid:30) Making arrangements for visitors. (cid:30) Making travel arrangements  (cid:30) Purchasing supplies of ofﬁce stationery and equipment (cid:30) Making arrangements for events, such as interviews or sales conferences The customer service function All businesses must look after customers or clients who have an enquiry,  concern or complaint. Today, customer expectations are high. When  people contact a business they expect a prompt, polite and  knowledgeable response. Unless they get a high level of service they are  likely to take their business elsewhere in the future. For this reason, many businesses have customer service staff – or a  Fact ﬁle customer service department – where trained staff handle enquiries and  complaints positively and professionally. This does not mean that other  Technicians, engineers  staff can ignore customers and their needs. It simply means that one  and consultants often  group specialise in assisting customers. undertake customer  Organisations that manufacture and sell complex industrial products  service functions in  usually employ technical specialists or engineers in customer service to  industry when specialist  give detailed advice and information. An example is BAE Systems, which  knowledge is required. sells aeroplanes such as the Euroﬁghter and Hawk jets. Answering queries  <insert photo 011>Unit 1 Exploring business purposes 31 related to these products obviously needs specialist knowledge. Similarly,  computer suppliers like Dell or PC World, and Internet service providers  like BT, have trained IT specialists to handle customer problems –  whether from other businesses or from individuals. Customer service staff also deal with complaints and problems. Most  businesses have a special procedure for dealing with customer  complaints, to ensure these are dealt with quickly and consistently. In  some cases, action is needed to make sure the problem does not occur  again. Customer service staff must also be aware of the legal rights of  customers – and this means having a knowledge of consumer law. You  will learn more about Customer Relations in Unit 2. Customer service functions (cid:30) Answering customer enquiries about products and services Activity (cid:30) Providing specialist information and advice to meet customer needs (cid:30) Solving customer problems (cid:30)  Providing after-sales service, including replacing damaged goods,  As a group, compare your  arranging for repairs or for spare parts to be obtained and ﬁtted best and worst customer  (cid:30) Dealing with customer complaints according to company procedures service moments as  (cid:30) Analysing records of customer complaints to resolve problem areas customers. What lessons  (cid:30) Using customer feedback to improve customer service and satisfaction can you learn from these? The distribution function Distribution means ensuring that goods are delivered to the right place  Did you  on time and in the right condition. Some companies, such as Amazon  know? and Debenhams, deliver direct to the customer, particularly when goods  are bought online. Other businesses, including B & Q and Sainsbury’s,  The term supply chain  hold stocks in giant regional warehouses, for delivery to stores around  is sometimes used to  the area. Superstores may use special vehicles, which can also carry  describe each stage of  chilled or frozen items. Other businesses have to move more difﬁcult  the process from the  loads or hazardous substances, such as large engineering parts, cars or  ﬁnished goods leaving a  chemicals. factory to their arrival in a  store. <insert photo 012>32 BTEC First Business 2nd edition Distribution involves more than just arranging for goods to be collected.  Key terms For it to be cost-effective, costs must be kept as low as possible. This  means, for example: Outsourcing involves hiring  (cid:30) planning vehicle routes to avoid back-tracking. This keeps fuel costs  a specialist ﬁrm to do speciﬁc  down and saves time  work, such as distribution  (cid:30) ensuring that vehicles do not return empty. This is only possible if  companies, security ﬁrms  goods are both delivered and collected. Vehicles that only deliver  and payroll agencies. goods normally operate on a regional or local basis to minimise  Logistics are the planning  ‘empty journey’ time. and controlling the  Working out the routes for many vehicles, with different loads – some  movement of goods.  urgent and some not – can be very complicated. Computer programs are  used by staff skilled in logistics to work out the best routes. Many organisations outsource both storage and distribution to external  contractors. This means paying a specialist ﬁrm to do the work. This is  often cheaper than employing experts in the business.  Did you  Distribution functions know? (cid:30) Ensuring all goods are appropriately stored before dispatch (cid:30) Ensuring goods for dispatch are securely packed and correctly labelled  Eddie Stobart is a  distribution ﬁrm with its  (cid:30) Checking vehicle loads are safe and secure own fan club! Find out  (cid:30) Ensuring goods are despatched at the right time more at www. (cid:30)  Checking that all deliveries match orders precisely and notifying sales if  eddiestobart.co.uk there is a discrepancy (cid:30) Completing the delivery documents  (cid:30) Planning and scheduling vehicle routes (cid:30)  Notifying sales staff of delivery schedules so that customers can be  informed (cid:30)  Dealing with distribution problems, eg through bad weather or vehicle  breakdown. The ﬁnance function Activity Most entrepreneurs consider this is the most important function in the  business. This is because all businesses need a regular stream of income  Find out more about  to pay the bills. Finance staff record all the money earned and spent so  logistics and distribution  that the senior managers always know how much proﬁt (or loss) is being  at www.exel.com/exel/ made by each product or each part of the business and how much  home. Click on ‘About  money is currently held by the business. This enables critical decisions to  Us’ then ‘Solutions’ and  be made rapidly and accurately because they are based on accurate  ‘Industries’ to ﬁnd out  information. In some cases, this can mean the difference between the  how distribution solutions  success or failure of the business as a whole, as you will see in Unit 3.  vary for different sectors.Unit 1 Exploring business purposes 33 Fact ﬁle An efﬁcient ﬁnance  function is crucial for  businesses to achieve  aims and objectives  linked to improving proﬁts  and lowering costs. In many large businesses, different types of ﬁnancial experts are  employed:  (cid:30) management accountants monitor departmental budgets and  Key terms current income from sales, prepare cash ﬂow forecasts and specialise  in analysing day-to-day ﬁnancial information and keeping senior  managers informed.  Reserves are proﬁts kept  (cid:30) ﬁnancial accountants are concerned with the preparation of the  back for later reinvestment in  statutory accounts. All companies must provide a Balance Sheet and  the business Proﬁt and Loss Account each year, and most produce a cash ﬂow  Interest rates are the cost of  statement as well. You will learn about cash ﬂow in Unit 3. borrowing money (cid:30) a credit controller monitors overdue payments and takes action to  recover bad debts. You will ﬁnd out more about credit control in Unit  3 (page 00). Finance staff support the accountants by keeping ﬁnancial records,  Did you  chasing up late payments and paying for items purchased. Today,  know? virtually all businesses use computer accounting packages to record  ﬁnancial transactions and prepare their accounts as well as spreadsheets  Computerised tills  to analyse ﬁnancial data. Some ﬁnance departments prepare the payroll  automatically record data  and pay staff salaries, but other businesses outsource this to a specialist  on the computer system  bureau. so that transactions can  Finally, businesses will often need money to fulﬁl speciﬁc aims and  be analysed by product,  objectives linked to growth, expansion or simply updating their  customer, staff and store.  equipment or machinery. These items may be bought from money held  Many systems also  back (reserved) from past proﬁts, but usually additional money will be  automatically update  needed. If the business needs to borrow money it will want the cheapest  stock levels. interest rates possible and also want good repayment terms. Deciding  where to obtain these funds is a specialist job and normally the task of  the senior ﬁnancial manager.34 BTEC First Business 2nd edition Finance functions (cid:30)  Producing invoices, checking payments are received and chasing up  overdue payments (cid:30)  Recording money received (cid:30) Checking and paying invoices received Activity (cid:30) Preparing the payroll and paying staff salaries (cid:30)  Monitoring departmental budgets to check managers are not overspending Discuss the way in which  (cid:30) Issuing regular budget reports to all departmental managers money is handled and  (cid:30)  Producing cash ﬂow forecasts and regular ﬁnancial reports for senior  transactions are recorded  managers in any businesses where  (cid:30) Advising senior managers on sources of ﬁnance for capital expenditure. members of your group  (cid:30) Producing the statutory accounts each year have jobs. The human resources (HR) function The human resources of a business are its employees. Wise organisations  look after their staff on the basis that if they are well trained and committed  to the aims of the business, the organisation is more likely to be successful. HR is responsible for recruiting new employees and ensuring that each  vacancy is ﬁlled by the best person for the job. This is important because  the recruitment process is expensive and time-consuming. Hiring the  wrong person can be costly and cause problems both for the individual  and the ﬁrm. Normally, new employees attend an induction programme which  tells them about the business, their rights and responsibilities as  employees, the company rules and the requirements of their new job.  Arranging appropriate training and assisting with the continuous  professional development of staff is another aspect of HR. Training may  be carried out in-house or staff may attend external courses.  HR aims to ensure that the business retains good, experienced staff.  Did you  Analysing staff-turnover ﬁgures will show the rate at which people leave  know? the organisation. If these are high, it is important to identify and remedy  any problem areas. Whilst people may leave for justiﬁable reasons, such as  Human resources used  moving to another area or for promotion elsewhere, dissatisfaction with  to be called personnel  the job or the company should be investigated. Some organisations hold  and you may still see this  exit interviews to ﬁnd out staff views on the business when they leave. term used in some  Employees normally have basic expectations of their employer. They  companies. expect to be treated and paid fairly, to have appropriate working  conditions, to have training opportunities, which will improve their  promotion prospects, and support if they are ill or have serious personal  problems. They also want a varied and interesting job and praise when  they have worked particularly hard or well. These factors help  motivation, which means staff are keen to work hard – and this  beneﬁts everyone. HR can help this process by monitoring working  conditions, having staff welfare policies and ensuring that company pay  rates are fair and competitive.Unit 1 Exploring business purposes 35 Many organisations have staff associations, which monitor the views  and conditions of staff and make these known. In other businesses trade  unions may represent the workers, especially on pay and conditions.  Senior HR staff liaise with these organisations, keep them informed of  changes and developments and are also involved in any negotiations  with senior management. Today, all employees and employers have legal rights and responsibilities in  relation to health and safety, data protection (which restricts the type of  information which can be held on employees and customers and how it is  used) and employment. HR staff must ensure that the business complies  with current laws and stays up to date with legal changes and  developments. You will ﬁnd out more about this if you study option unit 5.  Human resources functions (cid:30) Advertising job vacancies  (cid:30) Notifying staff of promotion opportunities (cid:30)  Receiving and recording all job applications, arranging interviews and  notifying candidates of the result (cid:30)  Sending a contract of employment and other essential information to new  staff (cid:30)  Arranging staff training and encouraging continuous professional  development (cid:30) Monitoring the working conditions of staff (cid:30) Checking health and safety and keeping accident records (cid:30) Recording sick leave and reasons for absence Activity (cid:30)  Carrying out company welfare policies, e.g. long-service awards and  company loans What would motivate you  (cid:30)  Advising managers on the legal rights and responsibilities of the company  to do a good job? List the  and its employees top ﬁve factors that would  (cid:30) Keeping records of grievances and disciplinary actions and their outcome encourage you to work  (cid:30) Monitoring the terms and conditions of employment, including wage rates hard, then compare your  (cid:30) Maintaining staff records list with other people in  (cid:30)  Liaising with staff associations or trade unions which represent the workforce your group. The ICT function Today, even the smallest businesses need someone who understands ICT  and what to do if something goes wrong. This is vital, because the  number of crucial business tasks now carried out on computer and the  importance of the data stored in the system mean that any system  failure can be catastrophic. Most organisations have a computer network where staff computers are  linked through servers. Maintaining the servers, installing new  (communal) software and additional hardware, such as printers and  scanners, is all part of the ICT function. ICT staff may also be involved  in the purchase or issue of computer supplies, such as cabling and  network cards and consumables such as printer cartridges – to ensure  that they are compatible with the system.36 BTEC First Business 2nd edition <insert photo 013> ICT specialists will be expected to update senior managers on  Key terms technological developments which would beneﬁt the company.  In  addition, current equipment will need replacing and software upgrading  at regular intervals.  A server is a computer  which allows access to ﬁles  Above all, ICT is responsible for system security. Making sure that only  and programs stored as  authorised users have access to the system, protecting the system against  shared resources on a  viruses and hackers and ensuring there is a full back-up system to restore  computer network. critical data in an emergency is vitally important. A network is a system of  Finally, ICT specialists will help and assist other users – from repairing  linked computers which can  problems and glitches to advising on the use of new software or  communicate and share  updating the company Intranet. The business website is likely to be  information. technically maintained by the ICT staff, but the content will normally be  devised by marketing staff – as you will see below. You will learn more  An Intranet is a private area  about this if you study option unit 8. on the network on which the  information stored can be  ICT functions accessed only by authorised  users. (cid:30)  Recommending new/updated systems and software to keep abreast of  technological developments and the needs of the business (cid:30)  Buying and installing new hardware and software and providing information  or training as appropriate (cid:30) Assisting users who have computer problems (cid:30) Repairing the computer system when required (cid:30) Advising on/obtaining/issuing computer supplies and consumables Activity (cid:30) Connecting new or additional equipment to the system (cid:30)  Installing a security system which limits access to authorised users and  protects against hackers and viruses Find out the IT policy at  (cid:30) Technically maintaining the company website your college and the  (cid:30) Monitoring staff computer use for compliance with the company IT policy security measures that  (cid:30)  Operating a back-up system for critical data so this can be recovered  are in force to safeguard  quickly in an emergency the system.Unit 1 Exploring business purposes 37 The marketing function Fact ﬁle Marketing is all about identifying and meeting customer needs. Many  businesses consider this so important that they are said to be marketing- led. In this case, everyone in the organisation is trained to put the  Marketing was famously  customer ﬁrst – from the production worker, who has to produce high  described as ‘looking at  quality goods, to the accounts clerk, who must respond to a customer  the business through the  enquiry promptly and accurately.  customer’s eyes’. Another way to understand marketing is through the marketing mix  which consists of four Ps. (cid:30) Product – Who are our customers? What do they want to buy? Are  their needs changing? Which products are we offering and how many  Did you  are we selling? What new products are we planning? In which areas  are sales growing – and how can we sustain this? For which products  know? are sales static – and how can we renew interest? Which sales are  E-marketing relates to  falling and what, if anything, can we do? electronic and online  (cid:30) Price – How much should we charge? Should we reduce the price at  promotions, such as  the start to attract more customers – or charge as much as we can when  email newsletters,  we can? Can we charge different prices to different types of customers?  website competitions and  What discounts can we give? What services or products should we give  advertising on search  away or sell very cheaply – and what beneﬁts would this bring? engines like Google, often  (cid:30) Promotion – How can we tell people about our products? Should we  on a pay-per-click basis. have specialist sales staff? Where should we advertise to attract the  attention of our key customers? How else can we promote the  product – should we give free samples or run a competition? Where  and how can we obtain free publicity? Should we send direct mail  shots and, if so, what information should we include? (cid:30) Place – How can we distribute our product(s)? Should we sell direct  to the customer or through retailers? Do we need specialist  wholesalers or overseas agents to sell for us? What can we sell over  the telephone? How can the Internet help us to sell more?   All these questions are considered by marketing staff. They start by  Key term identifying future customer needs. Products are then developed (or  adapted) or services offered to meet these needs. If this is done well, it  gives the company an edge over its competitors. This happened when  A publicity campaign is a  Apple introduced the iPod.  linked combination of  marketing activities, often  It is no use developing new products or services if no one knows about  used for a new product  them. Marketing is therefore responsible for the promotional activities  launch. which tell the customer what is available, such as by advertising, sales  promotions and publicity campaigns. The company website is a major way of communicating with prospective  and actual customers and the style and content is usually the  responsibility of marketing staff who ensure it is kept up to date. They  may also send regular newsletters to registered users of their site by  email. Monitoring the popularity of the website and obtaining  information on the customers who use it may be undertaken by the  company or outsourced to a specialist agency.38 BTEC First Business 2nd edition Activity Marketing functions (cid:30)  Carrying out market research to obtain feedback on potential and existing  Find out what promotional  products and/or services  activities are undertaken  (cid:30)  Analysing market research responses and advising senior managers of the  by your school or college  results and implications  and why these have been  (cid:30)  Promoting products and services through a variety of advertising and  chosen. promotional methods, e.g. press, TV, online, direct mail, sponsorship and  trade shows or exhibitions (cid:30)  Obtaining and updating a proﬁle of existing customers to target advertising  and promotions appropriately (cid:30)  Producing and distributing publicity materials, such as catalogues or  brochures (cid:30) Designing, updating and promoting the company website  The sales function Sales is a crucial function for all businesses. It is pointless having superb  products or services if no one buys them. For that reason, most  businesses have sales targets as part of their aims and objectives. Meeting  these is the responsibility of the sales staff or sales team. The job of the sales staff varies, depending upon the industry. Shops that  sell basic products, such as chocolates or magazines do not need to do  much selling. Most customers call in to buy something, choose the  goods they want, pay and leave.  Customers expect more help and advice if they want to buy a complex  Did you  or expensive item, such as a television or car. Stores which sell these  know? types of products therefore need trained sales staff who are friendly,  knowledgeable and can describe and/or demonstrate their products and  Organisations train sales  link these to the customer’s speciﬁc needs. staff to spot when an  Business buyers also expect a high-quality service and in-depth advice  extra sale may be made  and information. They may want to buy highly complex and expensive  to a customer. This is why  industrial equipment and need to negotiate special ﬁnance arrangements  you are offered shoe  – particularly if they are overseas buyers. Business buyers will also expect  cleaner when you buy  discounts for bulk purchases. Sales representatives often travel to meet  shoes and paper when  potential customers, as well as routinely visiting existing customers to  you buy a computer  ensure their needs are being met. printer!  Employing a skilled sales force is expensive, especially if they are paid  bonuses or commission. However, there are many beneﬁts as an effective  sales person can convert many enquiries into ﬁrm sales and build strong  links with customers to encourage repeat business. There are strong links between marketing and sales – and in many  businesses this may be a ‘joint’ department. Sales can pass on  important customer feedback to help marketing colleagues, as you will  see on page 00. Unit 1 Exploring business purposes 39 All sales staff should know there are a number of laws that protect  customers and understand which type of sales activities are legal and  which are not. You will ﬁnd out more about selling if you study option  unit 7. Sales functions Talking point (cid:30) Organising sales promotions  (cid:30) Responding to customer enquiries View 1: The best way to  (cid:30)  Selling the product or service to customers, either over the telephone or  sell goods is to display  face to face stock effectively and then  (cid:30) Preparing quotations or estimates for customers  leave customers alone to  (cid:30) Negotiating discounts or ﬁnancial terms for business customers  look around in peace. (cid:30) Providing technical advice  (cid:30) Keeping customer records up to date The production function Production refers to the manufacture or assembly of goods. Production  View 2: The best way to  staff must ensure that goods are produced on time and are of the right  sell goods is to employ  quality. Quality requirements can vary considerably. Whilst an error of  sales staff who will chat  0.5 mm would not matter much for a chair or table, for an iPod or DVD  to customers about their  player it would be critical.  needs and requirements. Checking quality does not mean just examining goods after they have  been produced. Today quality is ‘built-in’ at every stage of the process,  With which viewpoint do  starting with the raw materials. Many buyers set down a detailed  you agree – and why? speciﬁcation for the goods they order, such as Marks and Spencer which  sets down precise standards for all its producers. For clothing, this  includes the type and weight of material and the thread and fastenings  too.  Buying raw materials is done by specialist purchasing staff, who take out  contracts with regular suppliers and make sure that the terms of the  contract are met, in relation to delivery, cost, quantity and quality. They  also ensure that all items are checked on delivery and refer any problems  back to the supplier. The materials must be purchased at a competitive  Did you  price. This is not necessarily the cheapest price, but takes account of  know? other factors, such as the reliability of the supplier, the quality required  and the delivery date.  Today many businesses  buy goods online. This  Raw materials will be stored near to the production area in a separate  speeds up the buying  area. If a manufacturer uses a large number of parts – such as a car  process and means there  producer – storage can be very expensive, in terms of the space required  is less need to keep large  and the manpower to oversee the stock. For this reason, many  stocks on the premises. manufacturers today operate a just-in-time (JIT) system. This involves  having an agreement with speciﬁc suppliers to provide small quantities,  quickly, when they are needed. This beneﬁts both parties. The suppliers  know that they have a regular buyer. The manufacturer no longer needs  to store large quantities of goods or worry about having sufﬁcient stocks  on the premises all the time. 40 BTEC First Business 2nd edition Today, many production processes are automated. This means that  machines or robots do all the routine or dangerous jobs. At a bottling  plant, for example, the cleaning, ﬁlling and labelling of the bottles is all  done as a continuous process by machines. Operators check that the  production ‘line’ is functioning correctly by checking consoles and  computer screens, as well as by watching the work as it progresses. Some  Did you  industries use Computer Integrated Manufacturing, where the control of  know? the process is done by computer.  In 2005 Toyota’s sales  When a process cannot be automated, teams of operators may work  targets were set with the  together and take responsibility for a sequence of operations. This makes  aim of making it the  the job more interesting and makes it easier to ensure high quality. This  biggest car producer in  system is also more ﬂexible because changes can easily be introduced at  the world. any stage by giving instructions to speciﬁc teams. It is therefore used by  many car manufacturers who often want to vary certain models. The production function also includes all the following aspects of  production: (cid:30) production planning involves deciding what will be made, when,  and which machines and operators will be used. A realistic timescale  must be predicted, bearing in mind other jobs that are in progress (cid:30) production control means constantly checking progress to make  sure that production plans are met – and taking remedial action if  problems occur. This could be because of machinery breakdown,  substandard raw materials or labour shortages. (cid:30) machine utilisation control is concerned with minimising  problems by keeping all the equipment and machinery in good  working order. This involves checking to ensure none is overloaded  or overused, without being routinely checked and maintained. This is  important because if a machine malfunctions it may produce  damaged goods. If it breaks down altogether then production of that  product will cease. Because this aspect is so important, many  organisations have a maintenance plan, which shows the dates on  which machines will be out of operation for inspection and servicing.  These dates are then taken into consideration when production plans  are made. (cid:30) staff utilisation control concentrates on making sure all the staff  are working effectively and efﬁciently and concentrating their efforts  on key production areas and targets. This is very important in  industries which are labour-intensive and use more people than  machines, such as assembling circuit boards or sewing jeans. (cid:30) ﬁnal quality checks make certain that the product is of the correct  standard. This can be done in several ways. Each item may be  examined by hand – or passed through a machine which checks that  the size and tolerance is correct. Alternatively, items may be selected  for inspection on a random sampling basis. This would be the case if  a large number of identical items is being produced, such as cups or  biros.Unit 1 Exploring business purposes 41 Production is also involved in preparing items for dispatch. This may  involve simply packing the ﬁnished items – such as household goods or  clothing – and transporting them to the dispatch section. In other cases,  it may involve various ﬁnishing processes. For example, paper is  produced in huge rolls. These may be transported intact but usually the  paper is cut, boxed and packaged. It then looks like the paper you see in  a stationery store. Activity Production functions (cid:30) Ordering (often buying) stocks of raw materials from approved suppliers Investigate production  (cid:30) Storing and checking the stocks of raw materials processes online. At the  Toyota site www.toyotauk. (cid:30)  Planning production schedules to maximise machine capacity and staff  com/main/index.jsp click  levels on ‘How we Manufacture’  (cid:30) Producing or assembling the ﬁnished product to ﬁnd out more. You will  (cid:30) Checking the quality of the product throughout the production process need Adobe Acrobat on  (cid:30) Checking production is on schedule and resolving delays or problems your system to download  (cid:30) Packing and storing the ﬁnal products before distribution the pdf ﬁles. Talk to your  (cid:30) Scheduling routine machinery inspections and maintenance tutor if you do not know  (cid:30) Carrying out repairs to machinery and equipment as required what this means. The research and development (R & D) function This function is concerned with new product developments as well as  Did you  improvements to existing products or product lines. In many industries,  know? it also involves product design as well.  Improvements to existing products are often ongoing as a result of  Many organisations are  market research or customer feedback (see page 00). You can see these  secretive about R & D  improvements around you all the time – such as ring-pull cans,  because of the costs  microwavable containers for ready meals, transparent jug kettles and  involved in new product  memory sticks for computers.  developments. Staff who  work on new projects are  New products may be developed because of scientiﬁc or technological  sworn to secrecy, to  scientiﬁc advances, such as mobile phones, new drugs, WiFi and satellite  ensure competitors do  navigation systems. Or they may occur because someone has a good idea  not ﬁnd out about it. – such as Google or the Apple iPod.  The word ‘research’ may conjure up ideas of scientists peering into  microscopes but this is not always appropriate because research can be  divided into two types. Pure research aims to help us to learn and  understand more about anything – from outer space to DNA. It is mainly  carried out by universities and scientiﬁc establishments. Applied  Fact ﬁle research is focused investigation into how new discoveries can be used  to improve products – such as non-stick pans, which were developed  Functional areas support  from space research. This is the type of research done in business  business aims and  organisations.  objectives by achieving  R & D staff aim to work with designers to develop a usable product that  targets appropriate to  can be manufactured at a reasonable cost, sold at a competitive price and  their own area of work. is safe to use. The activities undertaken, however, can vary considerably, 42 BTEC First Business 2nd edition depending upon the industry. Trying to discover new, safe drugs is very  different to improving car performance. For that reason, R & D attracts  staff who are very experienced in their own industry and also in their  own ﬁeld – from software developers to food technologists. Many organisations aim to continually improve both product design and  performance. Industrial design relates to the appearance of a product  – from a computer to a car, or even the packaging of a standard product  – from perfume to soap. Designers want their product to stand out from  its competitors and to look attractive, such as the iMac. Today, most  products are designed using Computer Aided Design (CAD) packages,  which enable a designer to sketch a basic shape and then vary the  dimensions, angles and sizes of certain parts. The product can even  undergo stress testing by computer. Engineering design relates to  product performance; for example, for a computer, this means more  memory and greater operating speed.  Technological advances through R & D not only affect our lives but also  the ways in which businesses operate. New developments in computer  software and hardware have changed the way all departments create,  store and share data and communicate with their customers; and new  types of machinery and equipment have revolutionised many  production processes.  R & D functions Note that the exact activities will depend upon the industry. (cid:30)  In the pharmaceutical industry, scientists research and develop new  medicines and drugs Activity (cid:30)  In the food industry, technologists work with chefs to prepare new  products such as ready meals, sauces or ﬂavourings. Discuss with your tutor  (cid:30)  Electronic and IT companies concentrate on new technology products and  how the different  software, such as HD televisions, the X-box 360 and iPod accessories functional areas of your  (cid:30)  In the aerospace and car industries, engineers focus on improving  school or college help to  performance and safety whilst reducing emissions or noise. Designers  achieve its aims and  concentrate on the shape and look, both internally and externally objectives. Relationships between different functional areas No functional area in a business organisation can work in isolation. In a  small ﬁrm, links and interactions between people responsible for  different functions are usually informal and continuous. Sales people  know which customers still owe money and must not be sold any more  goods on credit until a bill has been paid; the manager knows which  members of staff are keen and hardworking, without being told, and a  customer query can quickly be solved by asking everyone in the ofﬁce  for advice. Unit 1 Exploring business purposes 43 The situation is different in a larger organisation because people may  work in separate areas or departments and rarely meet each other.  However, all areas still need information and support from each other  for the organisation to operate effectively. Constant communication and  cooperation is essential for the business to achieve its aims and  objectives. This often means that joint decisions have to be made  between departmental managers, or their staff, to take account of  everyone’s needs. Some of the reasons why departmental links are essential are shown in  the table below, which identiﬁes some of the key issues over which  functional areas need to communicate.  Functional area Links Sales and  Sales must know production schedules and agree  Production delivery dates of orders with Production so customers  are not promised dates which cannot be met.  Production must tell Sales about production problems  which will affect customers. Sales and Finance Finance must know about customer enquiries to  check their credit rating before sales are made.  Finance will be involved when discounts are agreed or  when there are problems with customer payments.  Distribution and  Finance must know when goods have been  Finance despatched so that invoices can be sent out. Distribution and  Sales must be able to inform customers when  Sales deliveries are due and be aware of any problems. Sales and Marketing Must liaise over sales promotions and adverts so that  sales staff can expect/handle enquiries. Finance and all other  Finance monitors departmental spending and the  departments achievement of ﬁnancial targets.  Human Resources  Will liaise over salary increases and bonuses. and Finance Customer Service,  Customer Service must pass on customer feedback  sales and marketing that could affect future product developments or future  sales. R & D and  Liaise over new product developments and methods  Production of production. Human resources  HR handles job vacancies, promotion opportunities,  and other functional  training courses and CPD for all areas/staff. areas (cid:29) Links between functional areas44 BTEC First Business 2nd edition Over to you 1  Investigate a famous business online at www.cadburyschweppes. com/EN/AboutUs/ Do not worry if you don’t understand everything on  the site, simply try to get an overview of how a well-known  organisation operates. Then combine your ﬁndings as a group to  answer the following questions.   a)  Describe the size and scale of the business. b)What is its core purpose as stated in the mission statement? c)  What are the main goals of the business?d)Explain how the business priorities link to the goals e)What are the main functional areas and what do you think is the main purpose of each one? f)As a group, suggest how the functional areas may interact to  achieve the goals of the business.  2  Simonstone Safety Products makes airbags for cars. It aims to expand  its operations over the next two years. It has the following  departments: Marketing, Distribution, Sales, Production, R & D, HR,  Customer service, ICT and Finance. a) For each target listed below, identify the functional area which   would be mainly responsible for its achievement: i)  increase output by 15per centii) reduce outstanding debt levels iii)employ 20 new production operatives iv) develop ‘intelligent’ airbags which adjust for individual  occupants v)redesign the company website to be more appealing with  extra features vi) increase sales by 20per cent. b)Identify three issues over which different functional areas would  need to liaise, and explain which departments would be involved. c)Evaluate the effect on the achievement of the targets if each of the  following situations occurred:i) sales and customer service cannot agree on who should  respond to customer enquiries by email  ii) customer feedback is analysed each month by a team from  marketing, sales, production, customer service and R & D and  an action plan drawn up iii machine breakdowns cause a serious backlog in production –  but staff keep the problem to themselves iv) the sales manager frequently goes abroad on business and no  one in the department seems to know his travel plans.Unit 1 Exploring business purposes 45 Case study  Assessment practice In the 1920s Britain started snacking on crisps –  and has not stopped since. But not all crisp  companies have been equally successful.  Recently, Golden Wonder, which once had the  largest crisp factory in the world in Corby, has  <insert photo _014> had serious problems. Struggling to compete  against Walkers, which dominates Britain’s crisp  market, it lost money in 2004 and 2005. It was  only rescued from total collapse at the last minute  when it was bought by Northern Ireland crisp ﬁrm  Tayto in February 2006, saving over 500 jobs. Walkers claims that 11 million people eat its  crisps every day. The combination of Gary Lineker’s endorsement and the  continual expansion of ﬂavours has proved a huge hit.  Another reason for its success is its ability to meet new challenges. In 2006, in  response to publicity about unhealthy snack foods, Walkers changed its  production method and reduced the amount of saturated fat and salt in its crisps.  It also opened a new plant in Skelmersdale and now has operations at ten  locations in the UK.  1(P)   Find out more about Walkers at its website www.walkers.co.uk and  describe its production and quality processes. 2(P)  Suggest two appropriate aims and objectives for a crisp manufacturer. 3(P)   Walkers is owned by PepsiCo which owns other brands, such as Quakers  and Tropicana. PepsiCo describes its functions as business areas. Access  these at www.pepsicocareers.co.uk/careers.php and read the proﬁles of  people who work in each area. Then identify the business areas that would  be responsible for the achievement of the aims and objectives you  suggested in 2 above. Grading  4(M)  As a group, decide how these areas will need to interact on a regular basis  tip and then explain this in your own words. A detailed explanation  5(D)  Walkers has been more successful at meeting its aims and objectives than  should include reasons or  Golden Wonder so far. As a group, evaluate the ways in which the functional  examples to support the  areas may have contributed to each organisation’s success or failure by  statements you are making.  answering the following questions. a) Suggest the ways in which the functional areas must have operated at  Evaluating something  Walkers for it to be successful. means reviewing the  b) Suggest problems that could have occurred between functional areas at  information and forming a  Golden Wonder that may have contributed to its problems. conclusion based on your  c) Suggest how being owned by Tayto might make a difference.  evidence. You should    (You can ﬁnd out more about Golden Wonder and Tayto at their websites  always include the  www.goldenwonder.com and www.tayto.com).  evidence that supports    Then write a summary of the discussion in your own words.  your views in your answer. Diseño de la estructura  organizacional 2022Definición de Estructura  Organizacional ¿Que es la estructura organizacional? Es la distribución formal de los empleos dentro de una  organización. seis elementos claves del diseño: • Especialización del trabajo • Departamentalización • Cadena de mando • Amplitud de control • Centralización y descentralización • FormalizaciónDepartamentalización • Una vez que los trabajos se dividen por medio de la  especialización del trabajo, deben agruparse de nuevo  para que las tareas comunes se puedan coordinar. • El fundamento mediante el cual se agrupan las tareas se  denomina departamentalización. • Existen 5 formas comunes de departamentalización: – Funcional – Geográfica – De Productos – De procesos – De ClientesDepartamentalización Funcional. DIRECCIÒN PRODUCCION VENTAS FINANZASDepartamentalización 1. Funcional. Ventajas: a. Permite agrupar los puestos de trabajo por función. b. Como se basa en el principio de la especialización el  individuo puede desarrollar su potencial. c. Orienta a las personas a concentrarse en una  actividad y esto hace más fácil la capacitación. d. Es la indicada para circunstancias estables de pocos  cambios.Departamentalización 1. Funcional. Desventajas: a. Reduce la cooperación interdepartamental, pues  exige una gran concentración intradepartamental por  la especialización. b. Visión limitada de los objetivos organizacionalesDepartamentalización Geográfica. GERENCIA REGION NORTE REGION CENTRO REGION SURDepartamentalización 2. Geográfica. Ventajas. a. Se ajusta mas a las condiciones particulares de  mercados locales o regionales. b. Permite establecer la responsabilidad de utilidades  y desempeño de la misma manera que cuando se  realiza por producto, pero el énfasis se hace es en el  área de cubrimiento.Departamentalización 2. Geográfica. Desventajas. a. Duplicación de funciones en cada una de las  diferentes regionesDepartamentalización Productos o  Servicios. Gerente Producto 1 Producto 2 Producto 3 Producto 4Departamentalización 3. Productos o Servicios .  Ventajas . a. Establece la responsabilidad de éxito de los  departamentos para una línea de producto o servicio,  Autonomía. b. Facilita la coordinación interdepartamental ya que la  preocupación básica es el producto. c. Facilita la innovación  d. Indicada para cambios rápidos en la tecnología. e. Flexible a los cambios imprevistos en el medio que  la rodeaDepartamentalización 3. Productos y Servicios. Desventajas. a. Duplicación de recursos y por tanto mayores costos  para toda la organización.DEPARTAMENTALIZACIÓN Por Proceso.   Gerente Departamento Departamento Departamento De De De Ensamble Diseño CorteDepartamentalización 4. Por Proceso. Ventajas . a. Agrupación de puestos de trabajo en los diferentes procesos  necesarios para fabricar un producto.  Desventajas.   a. No se adapta rápidamente a los cambios que alteran el proceso  productivo.Departamentalización Clientes.  Gerente Departamento Departamento  Departamento  juveniles Mujeres HombresDepartamentalización 5. Clientes. Ventajas.  a. Se concentra en satisfacer las necesidades comunes  de un nicho de clientes. b. Muy útil cuando los productos o servicios a ofrecer  son muy especializados y centrados en el cliente. c. Genera una cultura de satisfacción al cliente. d. Responde rápidamente a los cambios en las  necesidades.Departamentalización 5. Cliente.  Desventajas. a. Las funciones de producción y finanzas tienden a  volverse secundarias para la organización pues todo se  centra alrededor del cliente. b. Objetivos como productividad, rentabilidad,  eficiencia son sacrificados en función de satisfacer al  cliente.Cadena de mando • La cadena de mando es la línea continua de  autoridad que se extiende de los niveles  organizacionales mas altos a los mas bajos y  define quien informa a quien. • Ayuda a los empleados a responder preguntas  como ¿A quien recurro si tengo un problema? y  ¿Ante quien soy el responsable? • Los términos importantes son: autoridad,  responsabilidad y unidad de mando.Amplitud de control • ¿A cuantos empleados puede dirigir un gerente  de manera eficiente y eficaz? • La amplitud de control es el número de  empleados que puede dirigir un gerente de  manera eficaz y eficiente.Centralización y  descentralización • La centralización describe el grado en el que la  toma de decisiones se concentra en un solo  punto de la organización.  • Si los gerentes de alto nivel toman las  decisiones claves de la organización con una  participación escasa o nula de niveles inferiores,  entonces esta organización está centralizada. • En contraste, cuanto mas información  proporcionen o las decisiones sean tomadas por  los empleados de niveles inferiores, habrá mas  descentralización.Formalización • La formalización se refiere al grado en el que los  trabajos de una organización están estandarizados, y en  el que las normas y procedimientos guían el  comportamiento de los empleados. Si un trabajo esta  muy formalizado, entonces la persona que lo realiza  tiene poco poder de decisión en cuanto a lo que  realizará, cuando se hará y como lo hará.  • En organizaciones con un alto grado de formalización  existen descripciones de trabajo explicitas, numerosas  normas organizacionales y procedimientos claramente  definidos que abarcan los procesos de trabajo.Decisiones sobre el diseño  organizacionalMecanicista • Alto grado de especialización • Departamentalización rígida • Cadena de mando clara • Amplitudes de control limitados • Centralización • Alto grado de formalizaciónOrgánica • Equipos inter-funcionales • Equipos integrados por niveles jerárquicos • Libre flujo de información • Amplitudes de control extensas • Descentralización • Formalización escasaFactores de contingencia • Los gerentes de alto nivel de la mayoría de las  organizaciones dedican mucho esfuerzo al  diseño de una estructura adecuada. Saber cual  es la estructura adecuada depende de cuatro  variables de contingencia: – La estrategia – El tamaño – La tecnología – Grado de incertidumbre ambientalDiseños organizacionales  comunesEstructura Simple • Una estructura simple es un diseño  organizacional con escasa  departamentalización, amplitudes de  control extensas, autoridad centralizada  en una sola persona y poca formalización. • Esta estructura la usan con mayor  frecuencia las empresas pequeñas en las  que el propietario y el gerente son la  misma persona.Estructura funcional Una estructura funcional es un diseño  organizacional que agrupa especialidades  ocupaciones similares o relacionadas. Es el  enfoque funcional Estructura Funcional • Fortalezas: Ventajas de ahorro en costos  debido a la especialización y los empleados se  agrupan con otros que tienen tareas similares. • Debilidades: La búsqueda de objetivos  funcionales puede ocasionar que los gerentes  pierdan la visión de lo que es mejor para la  organización en general; los especialistas  funcionales se aíslan y tienen poca comprensión  de lo que hacen otras unidades.Estructura de divisiones • La estructura de divisiones es una  estructura organizacional integrada por  unidades o divisiones separadas y  parcialmente autónomas • En este diseño cada unidad o división  posee autonomía relativamente limitada,  con un gerente de división responsable  del rendimiento y que tiene autoridad  estratégica y operativa sobre su unidad.Estructura de divisiones • Fortalezas:  Se centra en los resultados:  los gerentes de división son responsables  de lo que sucede con sus servicios y  productos. • Debilidades: La duplicación de  actividades y recursos aumenta los costos  y reduce la eficiencia.Diseños organizacionales  contemporáneosEstructura de Equipos • Es una estructura en la que toda la  organización está integrada por grupos o  equipos. • Ventajas: Los empleados participan más y se  les confiere mayor poder. Disminuye las  barreras entre las áreas funcionales. • Desventajas: No hay una cadena de mando  definida. Los equipos tienen mucha presión a la  hora de hacer su trabajo.Estructura de proyecto de  matriz • La matriz es una estructura que asigna  especialistas de diferentes áreas funcionales  para trabajar en proyectos, los cuales regresan  a sus áreas cuando el proyecto concluye. • Ventajas: Diseño fluido y flexible que puede  responder a los cambios ambientales. • Desventajas: Complejidad para asignar  personal a los proyectos.Estructura sin limites La estructura no está definida ni limitada a  márgenes artificiales horizontales,  verticales o externos, • Ventajas: Muy flexible y sensible • Desventajas: Falta de control y  problemas de comunicación.Estructura de organización  que aprende • Apoya la capacidad de una organización para  adaptarse y cambiar en forma continua. • Ventajas: Los empleados comparten y aplican  los conocimientos constantemente. La  capacidad para aprender puede ser una fuerte  ventaja competitiva sostenible. • Desventaja: Puede ser difícil lograr que los  empleados compartan sus conocimientos.  Pueden surgir conflictos de colaboración. FUNDAMENTOS DE LA  PLANEACIÓN Bogotá Marzo 2022FUNDAMENTOS DE LA  PLANEACIÓN Que es la planeación? Definir las metas de la organización. Establecer una estrategia general para alcanzarlas. Trazar planes exhaustivos para integrar  y coordinar el trabajo de la organización.FUNDAMENTOS DE LA  PLANEACIÓN Que es la planeación: La planeación se ocupa de los fines (que es lo que hay que hacer) y también de los medios (como hay que hacerlo).       FUNDAMENTOS DE LA  PLANEACIÓN Objetivos de la planeación: Marca una dirección. Toda la organización  camina hacia los mismos objetivos.FUNDAMENTOS DE LA  PLANEACIÓN Objetivos de la planeación: Reduce la incertidumbre al obligar a los  gerentes a anticipar cambios, considerar  el impacto de los cambios y de esta forma  ofrecer las respuestas adecuadas.FUNDAMENTOS DE LA  PLANEACIÓN Objetivos de la planeación: Reduce la duplicidad y desperdicio de  actividades.  FUNDAMENTOS DE LA  PLANEACIÓN Objetivos de la planeación: Establecer los criterios de control.  Comparar lo planeado con el desempeño.FUNDAMENTOS DE LA  PLANEACIÓN Planeación y desempeño:   Una buena planeación se relaciona con: mayores utilidades, rendimiento de los  activos de la organización etc,  La calidad del proceso de planeación y la puesta en marcha de los planes  aportara más al desempeño que la misma  planeación. FUNDAMENTOS DE LA  PLANEACIÓN Metas: Son los resultados deseados para  personas, grupos y la organización.  Los Objetivos son Metas que tienen un  tiempo para lograrse.Son Generales si  afectan toda la organización y particulares  cuando deben ser alcanzados por un área  particular de la empresaFUNDAMENTOS DE LA  PLANEACIÓN Clases de metas: Económicas. Se refieren al desempeño  Financiero de la organización. Algunas son: Acelerar el crecimiento de los ingresos Aumentar dividendos a los socios Aumentar los flujos de efectivo Ser reconocida entre las principales FUNDAMENTOS DE LA  PLANEACIÓN Clases de metas: Estratégicas. Tienen que ver más con el  desempeño de la organización en el largo  plazo. Ejemplos: Mayor participación de mercado. Aumentar la calidad de los productos Fortalecer la imagen con los clientesFUNDAMENTOS DE LA  PLANEACIÓN Planes:   Son los documentos en donde se explica  como se van a alcanzar los objetivos o  metas. Incluye entre otras: Asignación de recursos Cronogramas.FUNDAMENTOS DE LA  PLANEACIÓN Tipos de planes: Planes Estratégicos. ´ Se aplican a toda la organización. Fijan sus metas generales. Tratan de posicionar la organización en  su contexto. El espectro de tiempo es mayor a un año pero no mayor a tres.FUNDAMENTOS DE LA  PLANEACIÓN Tipos de planes: Planes operativos: especifican los detalles  de cómo van a alcanzarse la metas  generales. Comprenden periodos de  meses, semanas o diasFUNDAMENTOS DE LA  PLANEACIÓN Tipos de planes: Planes de corto y largo plazo. Corto plazo Para aquellos con espectro menor a un año,  Y largo plazo para periodos con un  Horizonte mayor a tres años.FUNDAMENTOS DE LA  PLANEACIÓN Tipos de planes: Planes específicos: planes detallados sin  margen para interpretaciones. Se dan mas  en ambientes poco cambiantes. Planes direccionales: son flexibles y  establecen lineamientos generales. Se  utilizan mas en ambientes cambiantes  como hoy.FUNDAMENTOS DE LA  PLANEACIÓN Tipos de planes: Planes únicos: planes destinados a lograr  algo por una sola vez. Planes permanentes: para actividades que  se realizan permanentemente. Estos  comprenden políticas, reglas,  procedimientos.FUNDAMENTOS DE LA  PLANEACIÓN Métodos para fijar metas: Racional: Estas se definen por la dirección de la  organización y se dividen en metas parciales  para cada nivel de la empresa. Medios y Fines: cuando la jerarquía de las metas  de la organización esta definida claramente,  forma una red de metas, esto significa que la  metas de un nivel superior están vinculadas a  uno inferior que son los medios para lograrlas.FUNDAMENTOS DE LA  PLANEACIÓN Métodos para fijar metas: APO. Administración por objetivos. Los empleados y sus jefes determinan las  metas específicas de desempeño, revisan  periódicamente el progreso hacia tales  metas y se recompensa a quienes las van  logrando. Genera e impulsa más el trabajo  individual que el de grupo.FUNDAMENTOS DE LA  PLANEACION Características de metas bien diseñadas: 1. Debe escribirse en términos de resultados  más que de acciones  2. Medible y cuantificable 3. Tener un horizonte de tiempo para alcanzarlo. 4. Difícil de lograr pero no inalcanzable. 5. Ponerse por escrito 6. Comunicado a todos los miembros de la org. HERRAMIENTAS Y  TÉCNICAS DE  PLANEACIÓN Bogotá Marzo 2022HERRAMIENTAS Y TÉCNICAS  DE PLANEACIÓN Técnicas para evaluar el entorno 1. Reconocimiento del entorno.  Consiste en revisar grandes cantidades  de información para anticipar e  interpretar los cambios en el ambienteHERRAMIENTAS Y TÉCNICAS  DE PLANEACIÓN Técnicas para evaluar el entorno.  2. Inteligencia de la competencia. Son  actividades que permiten detectar lo  que hace la competencia, como lo hace  y los efectos que puede tener en  nuestra organización. No es espionaje.  Materiales promocionales, periódicos,  informes entregados a entes  gubernamentales.      HERRAMIENTAS Y TÉCNICAS  DE PLANEACIÓN Pronósticos:   Se podrían entender como las  predicciones de los resultados una vez  realizadas las tareas de reconocer el  entorno. HERRAMIENTAS Y TÉCNICAS  DE PLANEACIÓN Pronósticos:  1. Cuantitativos. Aplicación de las matemáticas  a conjuntos de datos que pueden ser  utilizados para predecir resultados. Análisis de  series, Modelos de regresión, modelos  econométricos etc. 2. Cualitativos. Basados en el buen juicio y las  opiniones de conocedores para predecir  resultados. Evaluación de clientes,  predicciones de vendedores etc. Nota. Las técnicas son más eficientes en  ambientes poco cambiantes.HERRAMIENTAS Y TÉCNICAS  DE PLANEACIÓN Benchmarking:   A través de investigar las buenas practicas  de los lideres competidores y no  competidores se pueden implementar  cambios en la organización para mejorar  su desempeño.HERRAMIENTAS Y TÉCNICAS  DE PLANEACIÓN Benchmarking:   Pasos. 1. Conformar el equipo de benchmarking  que se encargara de definir que es lo que  se quiere mejorar, a que organizaciones  se tomaran como ejemplo y escoger los  métodos de recolectar la información.HERRAMIENTAS Y TÉCNICAS  DE PLANEACIÓN Benchmarking:     Pasos. 2. Recolección de información propia y de los  referentes. 3. Análisis de la información para detectar  lagunas de desempeño y las posibles causas  de esas lagunas. 4. Se define y emprende un plan de acción para  lograr superar los estándares escogidos. HERRAMIENTAS Y TÉCNICAS  DE PLANEACIÓN Técnicas para asignar recursos:   Se utilizan para distribuir de manera eficaz  y eficiente los recursos;  los cuales son  siempre limitados independientemente del  tamaño de la organización.HERRAMIENTAS Y TÉCNICAS  DE PLANEACIÓN Técnicas para asignar recursos: 1. Elaboración de presupuestos. Un  presupuesto es un plan numérico para  distribuir recursos a actividades  específicas de la organización. Hay  presupuestos de Ingresos, Egresos, de  capital (compra equipos). De acuerdo al  tiempo pueden ser diarios, semanales,  mensuales etc.HERRAMIENTAS Y TÉCNICAS  DE PLANEACIÓN Técnicas para asignar recursos: 2. Programación. Estas técnicas ayudan  en los procesos de decidir.. a. Que actividades hay que hacer b. El orden de elaboración c. Quien las ejecuta  d. Fecha de iniciación y terminación de  cada actividad.HERRAMIENTAS Y TÉCNICAS  DE PLANEACIÓN Técnicas para asignar recursos:   2. Programación. a. Gráficas de Gantt. Se utiliza para  planear y controlar actividades durante un  periodo de tiempo previamente definido.  Se puede comparar lo planeado contra lo  realmente ejecutado en cada actividad.HERRAMIENTAS Y TÉCNICAS  DE PLANEACIÓN Técnicas para asignar recursos:   2. Programación. b. Gráficas de Cargas. Es una variación  de la grafica de gantt que permite a la  gerencia planear y controlar la utilización  de las capacidades de los recursos que  tiene disponibles para acometer un  proyecto. En el eje vertical en vez de  actividades se colocan los recursos.HERRAMIENTAS Y TÉCNICAS  DE PLANEACIÓN Técnicas para asignar recursos:  2. Programación.  c. PERT. Es un diagrama de flujo en el que se  muestra la secuencia de actividades con que se  realiza un proyecto y el tiempo o costo que toma  para terminar cada actividad. Tarea. Elaborar un  Pert para la construcción de una casa con las  actividades básicas de una obra.GRAFICA PERTGANTTHERRAMIENTAS Y TÉCNICAS  DE PLANEACIÓN Técnicas para asignar recursos:  3. Punto de Equilibrio. Sirve para  identificar el punto en que los ingresos  totales cubren los costos fijos totales.  Muestra una relación entre ingresos,  costos y utilidades.HERRAMIENTAS Y TÉCNICAS  DE PLANEACIÓN Técnicas para asignar recursos: 3. Punto de equilibrio. PE=   CFT/P-CUV PE=   Punto de Equilibrio CFT= Costos fijos totales de la compañía P=      Precio unitario producto CUV= Costo de producir una unidadHERRAMIENTAS Y TÉCNICAS  DE PLANEACIÓN Técnicas para asignar recursos:  4. Programación Lineal. Es una técnica  matemática para resolver problemas de  distribución de recursos. Entre las aplicaciones  están: Selección de rutas de transporte para  minimizar los costos. Determinar lotes de  diferentes productos a producir que maximicen  la utilidad teniendo en cuenta las limitaciones de  recursos.HERRAMIENTAS Y TÉCNICAS  DE PLANEACIÓN GRACIASPONTIFICIA UNIVERSIDAD JAVERIANA DEPARTAMENTO DE ADMNISTRACIÓN DE EMPRESAS TALLER PLANEACIÓN Práctique el establecimiento de objetivos para varios aspectos de su vida personal( académica,  Formación Profesional, Familiar, Pasatiempos, etc.). Establezca por lo menos 2 objetivos de corto plazo y  dos de largo plazo para cada una de las áreas.  Tomando en consideración los objetivos que estableció, desarrolle los planes necesarios para cumplirlos  y redáctelos. Piense en términos de lo que tendrá que hacer para alcanzar cada una de sus metas. Por  ejemplo, si uno de sus objetivos académicos es mejorar su promedio de calificaciones, qué tendrá que  hacer para cumplirlo  Escriba una declaración de Misión Personal.  Su propósito debe ser establecer una Misión que quiera  seguir, usar y revisar cada vez que sea necesario, que le ayude a ser la persona que quiere ser y a vivir el  tipo de existencia que anhela. Comience por investigar un poco sobre cuales son las características de  las declaraciones personales de Misión.sEste es un ejercicio que requiere de toda la seriedad y compromiso de parte de ustedes. NO ES UN  JUEGO…..  TIENE QUE VER CON SU VIDA.
