Abstract 

Recombinant spider silk proteins 


(spidroins) have multiple potential applications in development of novel biomaterials, but their multimodal and aggregation-prone nature have complicated production and straightforward applications. Here, we report that recombinant miniature spidroins, and importantly also the N-terminal domain (NT) on its own, rapidly form self-supporting and transparent hydrogels at 37 °C. The gelation is caused by NT α-helix to β-sheet conversion and formation of amyloid-like fibrils, and fusion proteins composed of NT and green fluorescent protein or purine nucleoside phosphorylase form hydrogels with intact functions of the fusion moieties. Our findings demonstrate that recombinant NT and fusion proteins give high expression yields and bestow attractive properties to hydrogels, e.g., transparency, cross-linker free gelation and straightforward immobilization of active proteins at high density. Introduction Spiders have up to seven different sets of silk glands each producing a specific type of silk. All seven silks are composed of spider silk proteins (spidroins) that are up to ~6000 residues long and contain an extensive central repetitive region capped by globular N- and C-terminal domains (NT and CT)1,2. The most extensively studied silk type, major ampullate, is produced by the major ampullate gland. In this gland, a single layered epithelium synthesizes the spidroins and secretes them into the gland lumen where they are stored in a soluble form (dope) at extremely high concentrations (30–50% w/v)3,4. The organization and conformation of the major ampullate spidroins in the gland have been debated, but most experimental evidence points towards an overall helical and/or random coil conformation and the existence of micelles or flake-like structures5,6,7,8,9,10. While the repetitive region mediates the mechanical properties of the silk fiber by forming β-sheet nanocrystals and amorphous structures11,12,13,14,15, the terminal domains control silk formation by responding to altered conditions along the silk gland16,17,18,19. The terminal domains are evolutionary conserved and their function is likely universal in all spidroins2,20,21. During passage through the gland, the spidroins experience a drop in pH from around 7.6 to < 5.716 and increased shear and extensional forces mediated by moving through the progressively narrowing duct22. In solution, CT is an α-helical constitutive parallel dimer17 but in response to low pH and shear forces CT undergoes unfolding and β-sheet conversion16,17, possibly triggering β-sheet transition of the repetitive region16. NT is monomeric under conditions that reflect those in the gland lumen and mediates solubility to the spidroins, but at decreased pH, protonation of a series of carboxylate side chains leads to NT dimerization with a pKa of around 6.5, which stabilizes NT and locks the spidroins in large networks16,18. Thus, NT plays a key role in the silk formation process by transitioning from a monomer in the dope to a dimer in the fiber23,24,25. NT remains highly soluble and helical at all conditions investigated to date16,18,19,20,26,27,28,29, which has inspired its development into a solubility enhancing tag for heterologous protein production30.  A recombinant mini-spidroin that is composed of an NT, a short repeat region, a CT and a His6-tag for purification (His-NT2RepCT), is as soluble as native spider silk proteins in aqueous buffers and recapitulates important features of native spider silk dope25,31. The His-NT2RepCT can be spun into continuous fibers using biomimetic set-ups where the soluble dope at pH 8 is extruded into an aqueous pH 5 bath25,32,33,34,35. Bioreactor fermentation of Escherichia coli expressing His-NT2RepCT and subsequent down-stream processing result in a yield of >14 g/l after purification34. Both the high yields of His-NT2RepCT, its high solubility and proper response to acidic conditions have been attributed to the NT23,25,34. Herein, we report on rapid formation of transparent hydrogels from recombinant spidroins, including NT alone, by incubation of the protein solution at 37 °C. By using Thioflavin T (ThT) fluorescence, Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy and transmission electron microscopy (TEM), we find that NT and miniature spidroins undergo a structural transition into β-sheets and amyloid-like fibrils upon gel formation. Furthermore, fusion proteins of NT and green fluorescent protein (GFP) or purine nucleoside phosphorylase (PNP) form hydrogels with intact functions of the fusion moieties. The combination of high-yield expression in heterologous hosts and rapid formation of hydrogels under physiological conditions open the possibility of economically feasible production of hydrogels with designed functions. Results Temperature-induced hydrogel formation of recombinant spidroins In contrast to most reported recombinant spidroins36, His-NT2RepCT is stable in Tris-HCl buffers at pH 8 and can be concentrated to 500 mg/ml without precipitating25. Hence, we were surprised to find that this protein rapidly forms optically transparent, self-supporting hydrogels when incubated at 37 °C (Fig. 1b–d). Further investigation showed that gelation of His-NT2RepCT occurs at a wide range of protein concentrations (10–300 mg/ml) and the concentration correlates inversely with time for gelation (Fig. 1c and Supplementary Fig. 1). To elucidate which parts of His-NT2RepCT mediate hydrogel formation, we next studied each domain in isolation and in different combinations by vial inversion test (Fig. 1a, b). All recombinant spidroin parts tested formed gels in less than 1 h (at protein concentrations of 300 mg/ml) except 2Rep which precipitated (Fig. 1b). This shows that both NT and CT in isolation, in combination or linked to a repetitive part, can form gels at 37 °C, and that the His6-tag does not affect the process to any significant extent. The finding that NT on its own could form gels was unexpected considering the common notion that NT is a highly soluble and stable protein and that previous reports of recombinant spidroin hydrogels have attributed the gelation effect to conformational changes in the repetitive region and/or CT (Supplementary Table 1)37,38,39. Notably, NT formed gels already within 10 min at ≥ 300 mg/ml (Fig. 1c). Vial inversion tests of NT at different concentrations showed that at > 50 mg/ml the NT solution gels faster than His-NT2RepCT at the corresponding concentration (w/v, Fig. 1c).